---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# 2: Theory - Domain Events in Spring

Spring Domain Events are a design pattern used in the context of Domain-Driven Design (DDD) within the Spring Framework.
Domain events are a way to model significant occurrences within a business domain that can trigger other actions or side
effects. These events are generated by aggregates (entities or value objects) in the domain model and are consumed by
event handlers or other parts of a system.

Spring Domain Events can be helpful in achieving loose coupling and separation of concerns in complex software systems.
Here's a brief overview of the key components and how they work together:

- **Domain Events:** These are simple data classes representing a significant occurrence within the business domain. They
typically contain relevant data needed to process the event and should be immutable.

- **Event Publisher:** This is a component responsible for publishing domain events. In this mini lab we will make 
  use of the `AggregateRoot` class from the Axon Framework, which provides a convenient way to publish events from 
  aggregates and integrates nicely with Spring.

- **Event Listener:** Event listeners are components that subscribe to specific domain events and perform actions in response
to those events. In Spring, event listeners can be implemented as methods annotated with `@EventListener` or as classes
implementing the ApplicationListener interface.

- **Event Dispatcher:** This component is responsible for dispatching events to the appropriate event listeners. In the Spring
Framework, this is handled by the `ApplicationEventPublisher`, which is automatically configured when using the
ApplicationContext.

