---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# 6: Hands-On - Add domain event support

## Status Quo

We got to know the domain in section 4. In our application we want to be able to register authors, write books and
publish them.

### The command

For that purpose I prepared the ``/commands/book/BookCommands.java`` class containing our new command API endpoint:

```http request
POST /books/{id}/commands/publish HTTP/1.1
Host: localhost:8080
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "publisherId": "80553ae1-2ef8-4adf-8fa8-d551684a9ea3"
}
```

Currently, this endpoint checks, whether a book can be published and if so sets it into a publishing state and persists
it to the DB.
Our task now is to trigger a domain event that represents this publishing action. This published domain event can then
be processed
asynchronously to trigger other actions connected to the publishing request, such as the confirmation of a domain
external publisher.

## Task: Implement the domain event support

We want to allow a publishing request and, since we aim for eventual consistency in our business process, the publishing
of a related domain
event, that can be consumed later on by our process adapter (event listener).
To be able to handle domain events in Spring, we need to add a new dependency in our ``pom.xml``:

```xml

<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.data</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-data-commons</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

### The AbstractAggregateRoot.class

This class is meant to be extended by your aggregate root entities. By doing so, your aggregates gain the ability to
capture domain events and have them automatically published when saved or deleted via Spring Data repositories, thus
adhering to DDD principles and enhancing the expressiveness of your model with respect to domain events.

**Purpose:** In DDD, domain events are significant occurrences within the domain. These events capture outcomes or changes
in the state of the domain that are important for the business. AbstractAggregateRoot facilitates the handling of these
events by allowing aggregates to capture and later publish them when interacting with Spring Data repositories.

**How it Works:** The class maintains a private list (domainEvents) to store the events. Events are added to this list
through the registerEvent(T event) method, which is intended to be called within the aggregate when a state change
occurs that should be communicated as a domain event.

The challenge of this task is on the one hand to actually register domain events on the domain entity / aggregate, and
then also map them to the JPA entity which will be persisted by the Repository. That in turn will trigger the handling of
domain events in the ``AbstractAggregateRoot.java``. If we sent domain events from the domain layer already, we
could encounter a chicken and egg problem, since the domain event would be sent before the JPA entity is persisted and a
possible roll back would leave us in an inconsistent state.

Let's get started! Here are some useful snippets. Can you implement them in the correct places?

```java

@Getter
private final List<DomainEvent> domainEvents = new ArrayList<>();
```

Our abstract base Domain event

```java
    public abstract class DomainEvent {
}
```

and the actual publishing event we want to trigger when publishing was requested.

```java

@Value
public static class RequestPublishingEvent extends DomainEvent {
    Long bookId;
    UUID publisherId;
}
```

The following snippet provides us the support for handling the Domain events correctly in our JPA entity.

```java
public class BookJPA extends AbstractAggregateRoot<BookJPA> {
    // ...
    public void registerDomainEvents(List<DomainEvent> domainEvents) {
        domainEvents.forEach(this::andEvent);
    }
}
```

In order to test the complete flow you will need to trigger the publishing of a book and then check whether the
domain event was published correctly.

```http request
### Register an author first
POST /authors/commands/register HTTP/1.1
Host: localhost:8080
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "firstName": "PLACE_YOUR_FIRST_NAME",
  "lastName": "PLACE_YOUR_LAST_NAME"
}


### Then write a book
### TODO change the author id to something that exists in your DB
POST /authors/10001/commands/writeBook HTTP/1.1
Host: localhost:8080
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "title": "PLACE_YOUR_TILE",
  "genre": "HORROR"
}


### ThenPublish a book
### TODO change the book id to something that exists in your DB and the publisherID to one that exists on your local
### instance of the publishing service
POST /books/10008/commands/publish HTTP/1.1
Host: localhost:8080
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "publisherId": "80553ae1-2ef8-4adf-8fa8-d551684a9ea3"
}
```

### TDD

You can tackle this task following a prepared test-driven development approach! You can find the code prepared
[in this branch](https://github.com/MaikKingma/tackle-eventual-consistency-with-domain-events/tree/task_5/add_domain_event_support_TDD).

### Solution

Got stuck anywhere along the way? Not to worry, you can find the fully implemented solution
[in this branch](https://github.com/MaikKingma/tackle-eventual-consistency-with-domain-events/tree/task_5/add_domain_event_support_DONE).
