---
sidebar_position: 7
---

# 7: Theory - Event Handlers in Spring

In the Spring Framework, there are several ways to create event listeners for domain events. The most common ways are as
follows:

## Annotation-based Event Listeners

### Basic @EventListener
These event listeners use the @EventListener annotation on a method to indicate that the method should handle a specific
event type. The annotated method will be automatically detected by Spring, and the appropriate event will be passed as a
parameter to the method.

```java
@Service
public class ExampleEventListener {

    @EventListener
    public void onExampleEvent(ExampleEvent event) {
        // Handle the ExampleEvent
    }

}
```

### Using @TransactionalEventListener
The @TransactionalEventListener annotation is similar to `@EventListener`, but it allows you to bind the event listener's
execution to a specific phase of the transaction lifecycle. This can be useful when you want to ensure that an event is
only handled after a transaction has been successfully committed or rolled back.


````java
@Service
public class ExampleEventListener {

    @TransactionalEventListener(phase = TransactionPhase.AFTER_COMMIT)
    public void onOrderCreated(ExampleEvent event) {
        // Handle the ExampleEvent after the transaction has been committed
    }

}
````

### Asynchronous Event Listeners
By default, event listeners in Spring are synchronous, meaning that they run on the same thread as the publisher.
However, you can configure event listeners to run asynchronously by using the `@Async` annotation in conjunction with
`@EventListener` or `@TransactionalEventListener`. This will cause the listener to run in a separate thread, allowing the
publisher to continue processing without waiting for the listener to finish.


```java
@Service
public class ExampleEventListener {

    @Async
    @EventListener
    public void onOrderCreated(ExampleEvent event) {
        // Handle the ExampleEvent asynchronously
    }

}
```

> Remember that if you want to use the @Async annotation, you also need to enable asynchronous processing in your Spring
configuration using the @EnableAsync annotation.

## Implementing ApplicationListener Interface
You can create an event listener by implementing the `ApplicationListener` interface and specifying the event type as a
generic parameter. You need to override the `onApplicationEvent()` method to handle the event.


````java
@Service
public class ExampleEventListener implements ApplicationListener<ExampleEvent> {

    @Override
    public void onApplicationEvent(ExampleEvent event) {
        // Handle the ExampleEvent
    }

}
````

These are the most common ways to create event listeners for Spring domain events. Each approach has its advantages and
use cases, so in general, choose the one that best suits your application's requirements.
